docs: document `flox build` in manpages (#2062)
flox/flox: cli/flox/doc/flox-build.md

---
title: FLOX-BUILD
section: 1
header: "Flox User Manuals"
...

```{.include}
./include/experimental-warning.md
```
> Feature flag: `build`
q
# NAME

flox-build - build packages

# SYNOPSIS

```
flox [<general-options>] build
     [-d=<path>]
     [-L]
     [<package>]...
```

# DESCRIPTION

> Build the specified `<package`> to run or verify your software locally.
> Create build artifacts from instructions in the manifest
> of the environment in `<path>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build the specified `<package>` from the environment in `<path>`,
and output build artifacts at `result-<package>` adjacent to the environment.
```

## Manifest defined Packages

Possible values for `<package>` are all keys under the `build` attribute
in the `manifest.toml`.
If no `<package>` is specified, flox will attempt to build all packages
that are defined in the environment.

Packages are built by running the script defined in `build.<package>.command`
within a `bash` subshell.
The shell will behave as if `flox activate` was run

> immidiately prior to running the build script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
immediately prior to running the build script.
```

The current working directory of the script will be set to the root
of the `git` repository in which the environment is defined.
Consequently, _building requires your environment to be tracked

> under `git` version control_.

Reviewer: nonblocking: explain why (I don't even know)

Author: fwiw i dont think the sentence before that is even truthful currently, ive been buildin in a subdir and _not_ have the cwd set to anything but the dir containing the .flox (which tbh, is the more sensible behavior in my opinion)
The restriction also only concerns sandboxed builds. i'll remove this here and amend something in the paragraph below.

By default, builds are run in a sandbox.
Within the sandbox only the files tracked by git are available.
Untracked files, files outside of the repository and notably network access
will be restricted to encourage "pure" and reproducible builds.
Builds can opt-out of the sandbox by setting `build.<package>.sandbox = "off"`.
With the sandbox disabled, building is equivalent
to running the build script manually within a shell created by `flox activate`.
Any build can access the _results_ of other builds

> (including non-sandboxed ones) by referring to their name via `${<package>}`.

Reviewer: nonblocking
```suggestion
(including non-sandboxed ones) by referring to their name via `${<package>}`.
In the example below, the `app` package depends on the `dep` package by using `${deps}/node_modules`.
```

> To produce build results, the build script is expected
> to copy or move artifacts to a special folder referenced by `$out`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`flox build` creates a temporary directory for the build script to output build artifacts to.
The environment variable `out` is set to this directory,
and the build script is expected to copy or move artifacts to `$out`.
```

> Alternatively, explicit artifacts can be declared via `build.<package>.files`.

Reviewer: question blocking: I don't think it's quite clear how this works. Where do those files have to be created?

Author: The files attibute is a bit unclear in general.
I also think there should eb a way to specify where the files will be located in the final package.
To add to this, i'm not even sure if the files attribute is already supported in the first place.
I'll take this out for now.

...
[build]
hello.command = '''
# produce something and move it to $out
mkdir -p $out
echo "hello world" >> $out/hello.txt
'''
```

2. Build the pacakge and verify its contents:

```
$ flox build hello
$ ls ./result-hello
hello.txt
$ cat ./result-hello/hello.txt
hello, world
```

## Building a simple multi stage app

Assume a simple `nodejs` project

```
.
├── .git/
├── package-lock.json
├── package.json
├── public/
├── README.md
├── src/
...
```

1. Initialize a Flox environment

```shell
$ flox init
```

2. Install dependencies and add build instaructions

```toml
# file: .flox/env/manifest.toml
version = 1

[install]
nodejs.pkg-path = "nodejs"
rsync.pkg-path = "rsync"

# install node dependencies using npm
# disable the sandbox to allow access to the network
[build]
deps.command = '''
npm ci
mkdir -p $out
mv node_modules $out/node_modules
'''
deps.sandbox = "off"

# build the application using previously fetched dependencies
app.command = '''
rsync -lr ${deps}/node_modules ./
npm run build
mv dist $out/
'''
```

3. Verify the result

```shell
$ npx serve result-app
```

# SEE ALSO

[`flox-activate(1)`](./flox-activate.md)
[`manifest.toml(5)`](./manifest.toml.md)

> [`docker-load(1)`]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
